[Music]
i just admitted a couple of the students
the meeting
please make sure you um login
with uts account then you don't need to
go to the waiting room
and we don't want to risk
in the online meeting so please make
sure you
log in first then you open your zoom
application any questions
all good so far so good week 3 is done
let me make sure i record this there was
a delay in
uh uploading uh the videos from last
week
i apologize for that uh for an
unknown reason i don't know why zomling
videos went to the george mills and i
couldn't
it take my time actually to find the
to find the link to the videos
for last week so now they are up
on canvas if you need to
go through or if you have been absent
okay let me um
the start
hello everyone and welcome to victory of
risk management in engineering
before going to the material for today
i'm going to talk about
assessment on a couple of things i
couldn't cover these
uh in the last meeting
for assessment one you need to set the
boundary of your system we talked about
uh system thinking
uh system definition boundary
environment
inputs and output last week please go
through
some a couple of short videos on canvas
for this concept they were they are very
short but they are very
helpful in understanding these concepts
and we reviewed those con
last week if you can go through the
video if you have any problem
so we talked about uh systems the
system definition uh
what's the what's important in a system
in comparison to a set of things the
relationships are
very important and the system boundary
helps us to
limit the system internal components and
processes
from the environment to some extent the
system that we
introduce in a boundary has an integrity
and can do some functions
for example in the case of study we said
we may consider our system boundary to
the open top
tank and component that help with the
operation only
for example in this case we may consider
boiler is a part of our system or not we
need to decide based on our objective
we're gonna consider ac power for the
electrical
components or not or we're gonna
based on our objective if we're gonna
consider domino effect
we are going to include the storage
areas
tight farms or in the system
so based on the objective and
um we said desco and the scoop of the
study we set the boundary
and to some extent our boundary shows
that the system has integrity and can do
some functions
you can define the system boundary based
on the
location which part of the system
in which area are included in your scope
and in your boundary
or you may talk about the physical
systems for example in the open top tank
i'm going to consider only these
components that you can see on the
screen
only i'm not going to consider boiler
uh ac power and other kind of things or
virtually
uh or even virtually you can
set the boundary of your system that one
is more conceptual and abstract
for the case study that we investigate
mainly location physical systems
subsystems and elements and components
are better for defining the system bound
and about inherently in your cases
studies
some hazards happen leading to some
accidents
so you consider only the main thing that
happened in your case study as an
inherently
inherent risk is a race without
implementing
any measure for controlling that and
and the figure shows uh if you are going
to jump between two
rocks so there is inherent risk of
falling down because you know it's by
the nature or by design it's
if you are designing a system with
flammable material
so you can see there is a risk of vapor
evaporation because of this flammable
material in your environment
by the nature or by design they are
there
then you don't have any measure for them
they are called inherent risk
as long as you start to risk assessment
and management and keeping some measures
for controlling them
they are not inherently anymore and they
are
secondary or residual risk we will talk
about these concepts later
in the subject and for
assessment one is you need to do a
stakeholder analysis i introduce there
is a document
in assessment one folder a couple of
pages
and it provides the definition of the
stakeholder and how you need to
do a stakeholder analysis this mainly is
a bahrainist storming
activity and you need to identify which
entities
including individuals groups or
communities
or affect your system or they are
affecting by your system or they have
interest
in terms of resources or area with your
system they are called
primary and secondary states it's very
easy and for assessment one the last
item
is to develop a causal chain for the
accident
it's not about the inherent risk it's
about the accident
so if you go to
engineering risk management textbook
chapter 6
you will see this figure and it is a
kind of
cause causal change
for representing accidents and you can
see over time
it says what kind of events unwanted
events or conditions lead to
some multiple failures over time and
leading to the
accident is a medium or a large accident
in your
cases so you develop a diagonal
diagram like this for your cable for
your cases studies any questions
or assessment one
very good by the way
i'm sure you haven't started your topic
and you have selected your cases
studies if you had any question feel
free
any time posted on canvas i reply as
soon as
possible so far we talked about
risk terminologies risk management
process
we we talked about systems thinking and
reliability engineering
today we are going to start risk
assessment we
spend a number of weeks on risk
assessment techniques
and there are a wide range of techniques
we
cover a number of them
we will talk about risk evaluation and
treatment
risk-based decision making risk
communication
and on good friday you have a
uh online module to go through for
virtual puzzles domino effects and
we introduce this framework for um
based on oiso31000 standard for risk
management
and there is a process based on this
standard for
doing risk management so if you look at
this diagram
the core box or core id of this process
is called risk assets and this is the
focus of
our today meeting
we are going to go through these boxes
mainly risk identification and risk
analysis we cover risk evaluation later
so mainly we talked about this
identification and risk analysis
today the main important
objective of doing risk assessment is to
identify their
priorities among risks that you have
identified for your project or for your
system
at the end of the day when you do when
you do risk identification
you come up with a long list of you know
unwanted events
and risk assessments help us to
just concept concentrate on the b graphs
we are not going and we we cannot reduce
risk to zero all risks to zero so risk
assessment is very important
to select the big rocks among those kind
of
risks in the literature there are more
than 100 techniques
for doing risk assessment and what what
they do
they mainly concentrate on determining
the likelihood and frequency of events
and estimation of civility for risk
calculation
for the risk in engineering context
when we say risk assessment we are going
to answer three questions
what can go wrong that could lead to a
positive exposure how likely
is this to happen the likelihood
element and if it happens what
consequences are expected
the severity part the severity element
of
this we answer these
three questions in engineering risk
classes
we can categorize all techniques or
all approaches in two categories they
they could be deductive or induct
when you say deductive it's a deductive
approach it means
we start with our one unwanted event
with one huzzah and we start to identify
the root causes deductive
or a technique maybe is inductive
we start with the one even one unwanted
event
possible and we identify the
consequences
techniques for avoid both of these
they feel in both categories
for example bow tie bota is a technique
at the same time we identified the root
causes
and we identify the scenarios
for consequences so some of those
techniques cover both
both both approaches in risk assets
or we can categorize the risk techniques
risk assessment techniques based on the
availability of data if we
do likelihood estimation consequence
identification
and we estimate those kind of things
qualitatively they are qualitative
techniques like pha hazel
or fme that we introduced today
or they are quantitative
in those kind of techniques we we
provide digits
for likelihood the estimate the
consequences based on some
quantities they are quantitative
approaches like
poultry culture is a technique that you
estimate the probability
based on the probability of the root
causes or for example like
inventory you estimate the stability and
the probability for each consequence
then you do quantification so it's a
quantitative check some techniques are
semi-quantitative or semi-qualitative
techniques
it means we estimate likelihood and
civility to some extent based on
some predefined
intervals for example we say we can have
estimation for
probability or likelihood based on their
a predefined range of one to five
for each event one is the frequency is
very low
and five the frequency is very high so
we mainly
rely on experts knowledge for those kind
of estimations
it's very important for assessment two
you implement fmca
we introduce this technique is a semi
qualitative technique for assessment
to risk management plan
and for assessment three you use
quantitative techniques so
qualitative and semi-qualitative
techniques are not acceptable
for assessment 3 disk paper
so we will go through details of these
assessments in the rest of the
weeks so you don't need to be worried at
the moment
so none of the risk assessment methods
are adequate for every situation
so we need to we usually need to select
the best technique for our situation
and it's very important to know usually
one technique is not
enough and we need to rely a combination
of it
so what we cover in the subject we
provide
some basic methods some static methods
and some donors
and we are not going and we don't have
time to cover 100 techniques but you
have
access to iso 31 010
risk assessment techniques it's
available on the
reading list please make sure you downl
you remember we said every engineering
system has a life cycle it
starts with conceptual design detailed
design it goes to the
development implementation or operation
then
and disposal maintaining and disposing
so basic methods are very good
at the early stage of these life cycles
at the earliest conceptual
design or just you know when you are
thinking about some ideas slimly
so they are inductive it means
because they are very conceptual they
are mainly
inductive you get you just do some
brainstorming
you have a checklist you identify
something then you
you guess what will happen in terms of
consequences so they are mainly
inductive
approaches so rather being
very technical technique they are
management
techniques and they are considered as a
risk management
techniques at the high level
some of the well-known techniques in
in this category basic methods are
functional analysis
pha or preliminary risk analysis hazop
and fmea or fm eca
we cover pha haso and fmea
functional analysis is common between
our subject and another subject
and you are very interested you can do
some self to study for functional
analysis
so static methods
they are a bit more advanced in compared
to their basic methods
and they are they can be used in their
detailed design and implementation and
operation as well
so they allow
an analysis to be developed promise the
structural point of view and
they are mainly based on boolean
mathematical
principles you need to refresh your mind
about boolean algebra for next week
the only thing that they don't consider
and maybe they
are not um appropriate for some
situations because they are aesthetic
and the factor of time
is not incorporated in these techniques
for overcoming of these disadvantages we
will introduce
dynamic bayesian networks in the subject
as well and we will
introduce a software for you and it's
very good for you
not only for risk analysis in the
subject but
for many other purposes system design
prediction and other kind of things as
well i'll talk about those kind of
things
later in the subject among
static methods we talked about the
liability block here from last week
is a static method faultry
inventory and motor all techniques that
we
introduce need in the next couple of
weeks dynamic methods
like marco or bayesian network dynamic
bayesian networks
they are more advanced in compared to
the
static methods and you can incorporate
their
temporal element in their
in the analysis risk analysis as
don't talk about markov and petri nets
you can do it by yourself but we will
cover bayesian
networks in the subject and the other
you will see they are already
strong for many purposes
so why there are many methods
because we have different kind of study
and the nature of these
studies are different
for some systems we have enough
knowledge
and for some systems we don't have
enough contamination
and some of the data are available for
some situations
and for some situations we don't have
any
data sometimes the system is very
for example safety critical systems and
we have enough time
and resources to make sure that the
safety
is um implemented in the system design
so we have more time and resources for
those kind of things
so all those kind of criteria will help
us to
select the best techniques for risk
assessment and i talked about the system
life cycle i know
and now you know about those kind of
phases
in the life cycle so for each phases
some of the methods are appropriate
and some of the techniques are not
practical
um or not practical
as well so we need to decide uh based on
those kind of things
so um
but the procedure that we have different
kind of techniques but
the procedure for implementing is mainly
the same and
starts with system definition that's the
reason we talked about system definition
last week
and systems thinking and why setting the
boundary
identification of the elements beating
the boundary how the system
works are very important for the sake of
this subject
the risk assessment starts with system
definition
then you have a system description it
it means you need you have more detailed
information about your system then you
do
qualitative risk analysis it means
through expert knowledge checklisted
checklist standards you go for
identifying
hazards unwanted events then you
analysis quantification you try to
identify
estimate the likelihood estimate the
severity
and make a decision if the risk is
acceptable or not
if it is not you need to go through do
some modification
and make sure at the end
your all risks or at the acceptable
driven so you go through this iteration
several times
usually based on the experience in
engineering systems
two or three iterations or enough
to measure all risks or accept
and it really depends on your system for
nuclear stations
spacecrafts and other kind of things
more uh
details and more iterations are
necessary to make sure
all these are accepted
and apart from the procedure that we do
some other things are very important in
practice
team selection is one of those kind of
things risk assessment
is usually is a multi-disciplinary
activity so you need to have a
mechanical expert
you need to have an electrical engineer
you need to have a chemical engineer you
need to have a process
engineer you need industrial engineer
software engineer you need to have a
representative from the high level
management you need to have some
operation field
operators in your team to make sure
that you you do some something in the
right right
we talked about uncertainty management
in which one
open mind having expertise and
some of the standards and knowledge that
you need be the open mind you try to
do risk analysis you need to do some
information gathering
then you perform the analysis based on
the procedure
then you recommend some corrective the
actions you need to
allocate those kind of actions to some
people and make sure they are
responsible
and you need to make a deadline and they
go for modification and you need to
monitor the implementation to make sure
that you are not first introducing the
new risk in your system as a part of
your
risk assessment and risk risk treatment
and the remaining risk is
acceptable then you need to do
continuous monitoring and follow
up for your discussions
so for both economic and efficiency
reasons is very important to think about
some measures in the earlier stage of
systems
life cycle as you go through each phases
and system
gets major mature it's very difficult
it's very expensive to incorporate
some corrective measures in the system
so you need to think about inherent
design based risk measures in your
system rather than
being some introducing some remedy
at the end of the cycle
so it's very important for engineers to
think about
inherent safety and risk based design
in their in
in there in their recipe so i
introduced a couple of topics for
risk-based
design for engineering systems for
graduate and capstone projects and they
are available on project match
if you if you are interested
so i'm going to go through uh basic
methods today
the first one is pha pha
is very relatively simple method and you
will see
for for doing this you just need a wall
you need a pencil and a paper to do pha
apparently it's very simple in terms of
implementation
because you don't need anything in terms
of
technical and practical things but
absolutely it needs
knowledge design knowledge is very
important for implementing this
technique you can see the origin of pha
is u.s air force in 1969
and is mainly the inductive
approach you start with events
and try to identify their consequences
so it's mainly the management technique
rather than
very technical risk assessment
so for doing this you need to have a
design knowledge
other knowledge or maybe other this
to start this activity
but still you need you need a team so in
your team
you do pha for any
uh objective that you have and
look at look at this worksheet usually
it has
with it has some columns like this you
identify the other
you identify the accident accidental
events and you
identify the causes what could be
as a print preventive action for
for each result and you have a column
comment column at the end you may say if
there is any deadline for doing this if
any person is responsible for doing
those kind of things you put it in that
comment
column and it's not very there isn't
there is not
a unique worksheet for doing pha
and it really depends on the situation
and the nature of the system that you
are going to do pha for
so look at this example all of us have
done
barbecue and we may have some of these
lpg tanks at home
so this is only a
a very brief example about doing pha for
a storage of
flammable gas for example you identify
a hosel you may start with element uh
which element of this uh
tank you are focusing on tank for
example
the hazard could be mechanical impact
against the shell so
the event could be gas release so
it may cause um the causes could be you
know
hitting the the tank by a car
or intentional damage by a person
and the consequence could be fire or
property damage
or you may have decisions and injuries
as well and what is that corrective
action for this puzzle could be
inspection program to make sure
first the shell the shell is okay
or a continuous monitoring of air
quality in the
in the case that there is a gas release
you may have a
sensor to realize that there has been
gas release
absolutely not for barbecue but you know
if you have a
flammable gas storage in a plant maybe
sensors are very good measures to
monitor the air quality for the workers
and absolutely prevented any
any fire or explosion and you can see
you may have lots of a number of
rows for the for the system that you are
considering
for your ph we will do pha in tutorial
for the case study
so is very quick is very cheap to
implement
and you go through the details of this
and maybe one of the most disadvantage
of pha
is the failure propagation or
consequence of multiple failures in each
row
you just think about one puzzle and you
just record those kind of things that
they all directly to that other
only and you don't think about multiple
of these kind of
events together by the way because pha
is not a
systematical technique
methodology and you don't have the
knowledge behind
or a system that has because the system
is not implemented yet so maybe that's
the reason
you cannot think about multiple failures
at the same time but next week when we
introduce
faulty you can see multiple failures
the scenario can be incorporated
with country for example
next technique is hazard and
operability study or it is called hazel
is a is a very old technique over the
years
some modifications have been implemented
in this technique
and the current hazard is much more
better than
the old version and what's the idea
behind
huzzah because of the idea behind
behind it is that every deviation
from the normal operation is considered
as a hosel
this is the idea every deviation
from the normal operations
is called puzzle so
it's very good because in many
systems you you work with
some observable variables you have
pressure you have followed you have
temperature
so for hydraulic systems for example is
very
good to implement
or even in the development of hazard you
may think about
timing as well if you need to do some
actions in some
certain of time and it's very important
you may think about incorporating those
kind of things
in the household so mainly the focus of
hazum is in in operation
the the concentration the emphasize
is on operation any deviation from the
normal operation is very important it
has
you need to have pid
the piping and instrumenting the airflow
you need pfp
process follow the order as an
input you need to have the team team
leader
and the the technology the methodology
itself then you do a hazel
study so you make a plan
you you select your teammate and team
members
you identify the system elements choose
guide words you will talk about this in
more detail
and you perform the analysis and you do
documentation at the end
so you have the hazard risks and
corrective measures at the end of this
stuff again
like pha hasu is an inductive
process absolutely
we get some causes for each other
but is not systematically investigated
so it is so hazop is mainly considered
as inductive approach
and as i said it's very good for
examination of
thermo-hydraulic systems because they
work with
some of those kind of observer variables
like temperature
and pressure and this is the
study procedure
define and structure the system again
like other kind of risk assessment
you need to define the system boundary
you need to identify the elements
that they are within your boundaries
then you define the functions and the
specification for each unit
then you identify deviation using guide
words
and determine the causes then you
determine the consequences and severity
and you need to go through this
iteration for each unit
then if it is not acceptable you make
some
uh you you do some corrective
measures and you start from the
beginning to make sure
all these are accepted
so uh is it start with sub deviation of
the process
expected function for each unit
then search for deviation and deviation
equals to
a guideboard plus a problem we will
introduce the guideboards
and some examples for parameters
then you do risk assessment assessing
the likelihood
maybe not necessary and comprehensive
analysis
or realistic deviations you need to
identify the consequences
then measures for collecting
reducing the likelihood or reducing the
stability added
so look at these keywords i think these
keyboards are
standard uh has a procession
may maybe seem
different from one sources to another
resources but
they go the keywords i think they are
mainly the same in all resources
so look at these keywords no
or not and there is a description
no part of the intention is fulfilled
and for example if you have a pipe for
example
no follow your guideboard then
parameter no follow for example
for example no pressure for example
or no level if you have a tank and you
you include some material in the tank no
level it means nothing is
inside there more
for example you have a pawn it can
overrun
more is a guideboard for representing
them
or increase in a quantitatively
things and for example higher
temperature
when we say more temperature we are
referring to
higher temperature or too much product
for example
in a storage less as well as
part of re reverse
for example if you need to do a first
a activity a then activity b
reverse means you did you did a mistake
and you did activity b first then
activity a
or any mistake in in the order
so um could be
for example before or
after as well
and look at this for example like you
are going to
include some detergent
for a cleaning operation no detergent
at all you may consider this keyboard
with this or more
or less for example less too little
detergent is added
more part of for example you need to
include two detergents for the cleaning
purpose
but you include only one material so the
portal
or rivers we talked about oh they are
done
for example you include a wrong
detergent for the for the cooling for
the cleaning
operation or only for example you need
to add the
detergent at time t1 but there's a
mistake
there's a failure and you include some
early or late of these
you include detergent a bit late or
early rather than t1
in the operation so we will work around
these keyboards in the case of study
writing and about the parameters you
know about the keywords the parameters
could be very large they could be
observable variables
like temperature pressure level
concentration ph and the rest the speed
and it could be operation the parameter
could be
operation like loading heating control
cooling
other kind of things or they can be
actions like a startup
or shutdown isolate and close
or they could be functions situations
parameters like for example or bushfire
or you have a freezing weather those
kind of things could be function
situation for your for your case
so you include the
keyboard with promise so look at this
example
and this is there and the hazoop has a
worksheet like pha as well it
it comes with several columns and
it's not unique as well it really
depends on the
system that you consider for azovistan
for example in
textbook the worksheet is looks like
this but in some other references
the worksheet is not like this one
so about cleaning agent look at this no
cleaning agent so you put it here this
is the deviation
not including the agent
the causes so
no detergent will lead to the possible
causes
because the the reserve here is
empty consequence so
when you don't have you cannot do the
cleaning operation
so um and the safeguard
could be including uh operators
to make sure check their reserve here
before a starting operation
and some comments and action record for
example
in your design you may consider one
alarm
to show that there is a low detergent
before their
operation cycle and assigned to one
engineer
or some specific person to do this
and and you can go for several columns
to make sure that for one unit
you first think about or deviation from
the normal operation
and make sure that you include all those
kind of things in your
worksheet so definitely
some of these rows are
safety for example uh
high temperature you have somewhere
could lead to for example employer or
something
some of these could be quality
risks for example if you you need a
you need to mix some materials at a
certain
temperature if you have less temperature
definitely there is some quality
risk so you produce some unqualified
products at them so some of them are
safety and you they could be from
different
aspects in your study
even you may think about human error if
the pro
operator for example needs to do
something
in the operation um
early late or missing those kind
or not for example based on the keyboard
they could be
incorporated in the hazard study
so is is easy it's very easy to learn
i know you learn right now
and it's a team effort and you need to
and it's good because you have different
point of view
it could be it could produce good
results
but if for a very small unit
it takes a lot of time and effort
because
it includes all deviation from the
normal operation
and you need to make sure that you have
enough um
resources for doing that and enough time
and some of the order and disadvantage
as well someone's sometimes
very difficult to assign their bright
world keyboard to a personal
well-defined system that you all
study so you deserve the
disadvantage of us please go through
that
more details in your respect
any question for hazel
no questions all good i know they make
sense for engineers
and even business students um
pha look at the system
very conceptual is very abstract at the
beginning of the
system design the focus of
household is in operation and maybe
failure look at this from another
perspective
which are trail elements
in equipment in their components
so you know all systems engineering
systems
there are many complex we talked about
the reliability block diagram how
those kind of things contribute to the
reliability of the system
now you need to think about components
individually if they can show any
failure in their life cycle
as so this is called failure mode
and effect analysis so
it's a old technique again in 1940s
and the objective of this technique is
to
identify all failure modes for a pistol
for
every piece of equipment in their
system and more
advanced of this technique is called
failure mode
effects and critically analysis
fmeca and we will talk about this
technique in there
in the meeting today and it's very
important for assessment two
you need to implement fmeca we don't
accept
fm so make sure and it's very easy
the difference is is only the
estimation of the critically numbered
when you are going to do fmea
you need you need to have some inputs
like
construction and operating drawings like
pid and other kind of
things you need potential failures
for each equipment or for each component
then you may need to have
a frequency of failures as
for many components the frequency
has been estimated over the years and
for example and the risk analysis in
engineering has appendix
for some of these factors
then you assess the process the concept
you identify
potential failure modes you evaluate the
effect of each
failure mode then you document your
analysis
and then you have a list of failurements
the consequences
maybe system reliability hazard and risk
and
list of critically numbers
then how you use the critical numbers
yes you use the critical number to rank
the risks and go for unacceptable
risks start with big rocks then if you
have time
based on the objective and resources
available you may consider
the list of risks in your study
so in practice again you need system
definition
you need to have a plan we need to
you you need team selection team members
collect information perform the method
itself
define their mitigation measures monitor
the implementation
register results and analyze
documentation at the
end of this
activity and it has only three
fmeca implementation i mean a step
five step five goes through these
uh three s steps develop a hierarchical
model
of the system identify
frame elements associated with each base
unit model
then determine their critical
so as the one when we say you need to
have a hierarchical model you
start with the unit you know you know
the system
you know the system boundary you may
start with
main functions at the at the beginning
or stop
bigger subsystems at the beginning you
start to
break down the system to lower
level and you start then you go to the
equipment
all components for each sub level
for each equipment you determine the
failure math
you do the analysis then you get back to
the higher level
and do sentences of your results
so what are the failurements for each
equipment
they could be one of these or a number
of these failures
function loss look at this the
light blue shows the trailer and the
dark blue
shows the function the original function
for example you expect a pump
works the pump runs then
there is a it stops working so you lost
the
function or on desired operation
for example you need a pump to start
working
but it doesn't so you have it on design
or furniture
or refuse to stop for example you are
going to stop and follow
but you cannot or
the system equipment is not able to
do that so it's a kind of another
failure
refuse to start refuse to stop
refuse to stop or downgraded operation
all kind of failing mods are possible
for each equipment so now you can guess
what what one of the disadvantage of
fmea
is that considering all failure modes
for
all equipment are not
very efficient or not very or not
possible at all so you may concentrate
on a major failure mode or you may
consider only one failure
one status for all failures
so it's depend on your study to decide
about then you do the
critically calculation
you guess the severity for each failure
you may assign a number between one too
far
for the severity estimation
for example one is very
very low severity or
very yes fine is very high
or maybe in terms of severity is better
to say
for example no damage
or very severe damage or a disaster i
don't know it depends
or maybe you use a number between
1 to 10 for assigning this number
in the tutorial we introduce
these intervals these three default
numbers
based on 1 to 10 and we will implement
in the cases
for for likelihood again you need to
have an estimation these comes from the
expert knowledge
between 1 2 5 or if you
you may have some references for this
for example the likelihood
is very unlikely to
high probably so a number between one to
five or one to
ten and detection how
easy is to detect
this failure
so if it is not very simple you
assign a bigger number like five or
when it is easy to detect you assign a
lower number
like one or two so depends on the expert
knowledge and
the technology where you decide about
the
detectability as then you multiply
all these numbers together for each
failure mode
so you get a number between 1 to 125
for each failure mode so using this
priority number you do
ranking at the end of this study
for your um for your
roles in the fmea worksheet
so now you can see to some extent
you do risk assessment but still it is
semi qualitative or semi quantitatively
when you have the risk priority numbers
this chart
this flowchart helps you to decide about
the measures
that need to be implemented for example
if the critically is
who is critically is severe
yes it is fairly quiet yes
detectability is not easy you need to
look for causes and implementation of
preventive measures
so expensive solution but we have we
have no choice
or for example you it is severe no
is not very good no so you don't need to
do
anything nothing so based on different
kind of scenarios
this flowchart based on the textbook can
help you to decide about
this treatment
and this is the worksheet for fmea
fmeca based on the textbook
it has 14 columns first you
start with the function or activity
the hazard damage
estimation for frequency estimation for
civility
estimation for detection then the
critical
number you introduce a corrective
measure
then you revise these numbers based on
these measures
you include a sensor you include
some for example a spring of water
so you may reduce the
likelihood or you may reduce the
severity so you have a new
this priority number based on this
measure
even it can help you to decide between
measures for example one for one row
you have different kind of you you may
introduce different measures
even the critical number can help you to
decide between those measures as well
apart from the cost implementation
time reliability and other kind of
things we will talk about those kind of
things in the risk-based
decision making at the end of the
semester
and this is the example so
handling chemicals for example is a
function or activity
and the hazard is the spill so
the damage could be contamination
frequency is tree severity
to detectability is very hard
so you have 30 you introduce
one for example measuring the
tray on chariot so you can reduce the
critical
number from 30 to 10 for this example
and who is responsible for doing this
and what is there due date
it's a kind of um doing fmea
at the higher level for fortunes
as i said because you can break down the
functions
or the system you you may think for
doing
fme from different perspective functions
system and subsystems then components
so is another way of doing
that so in the in the tutorial we
will we will have opportunity
to look at this one from different
perspectives
and these are the advantages and
disadvantages of this technique so
it's a detailed method providing
reliability
prediction and there is some software
for doing that
they use it in industry so it is
automated to some extent and you can use
this
i don't know any free software for
students but
for doing assessment too the worksheet
is clear
then it does not provide a simultaneous
vision of
possible failures again like pediatrics
we look at the failure modes alone i
mean in isolation
and we identify the causes and
consequences and estimations
different kind of failed elements are
possible and it's very common in
engineering systems the high temperature
or high pressure at the same time
can make the failure mode for you know
about different kind of things and
usually
abnormal situations include multiple
failures
but in fmea we cannot consider
multiple failures at the same time and
this is one of the
most important disadvantage of basic
methods
together and as you can see
is not designed for hazards unrelated to
phalanx
because we think about the failure mode
of equipment or
components for example we don't think
about artwork
we don't think about bushfire or we
don't think about you know
um vapor in the case of study we had
vapor
vapor was the result of multiple
failures in the system
one other kind of things they are not
related to failure so they cannot
be considered in their fme
but still human error can be considered
independent as the brother the failure
mode
opening something enclosing something
in not opening not closing at this
at the right time those kind of failures
still can be
considered in effect
and absolutely like other
basic methods the cost of failure
destination of cost is missing so
fmea cannot help us alone cannot be
very effective for decision making or
risk measures
so today we talked about the risk
assessment process
in general what is the general procedure
for doing that
in practice what we need different kind
of expertise team made
team members we need to have a
multi-disciplinary
team data collection and other kind of
things
and not there is no
unique disk assessment technique to fit
in
all situations there are a variety of
those kind of techniques
qualitative semi-qualitative and
quantitative techniques
and this knowledge with the standard is
very helpful
for your future and in the subject as
well and we
introduce pha hazard and smea
today as basic methods for doing risk
assets
in the tutorial we implement these
techniques
in our cases study
and if you have any questions you can
discuss further in there too
any questions for now
ah just just a quick question on the for
this assignment
we're using the bha and hazop right for
the assignment one
no assumption yes assessment one is
about finding first finding your
interest
about one topic from the list
you need to do a bit research to to find
out what are the topics
then you need to find two cases studies
for your topic
then for each case study you define the
system
it's up to you how to define it okay
how how to set the boundary is based on
your objective
okay and you need to
find the inherent risk
only say based on this case study the
inherent risks
or this one and the causal change for
the accident
we don't do any risk analysis or risk
assessment
for their cases studies in assessment
assessment one is only twenty percent
two thousand words
to find your topic and cases studies
for assessment two entries
for well i mean i've found two cases
studies already
but um one of them doesn't have any data
so
um i know for assessment two we're gonna
do
um two and three we don't go to a
quantitative inequality and with the
quantitative one
i'm gonna need data so it's important to
look for
a case of study that actually has some
data or we can collect that or we can
assume some data
very good questions very good the only
reason that i said two cases study for
assessment one
is to manage the risk for assessment two
and three
if one of your cases study has enough
data and information
and you are happy to continue that
cases study for assessment two and three
so you are done
you don't need to look for a detailed
case study for your
second cases your second case study
could be
for assessment one old okay
perfect you you select one of the cases
study for assessment two
and three or you can choose cases that
you want for assessment
2 cases 33 for assessment 3
up to you but the only reason we said
two cases study
my idea was to manage the risk
if in such a bad case you don't have
data
and information for one of the cases
study at least you are
you should be fine with another one for
assessment
but we do talk about both cases that is
in the assignment one
yes okay no problem thank you
any other questions
okay the practice quizzes
on canvas doesn't have anymore they are
just for you
to review your knowledge if you go
through the preparation you can do
them in advance to see if you've got the
the basic ideas of the modules
or you can do it after the lecture to
make sure that you reflect on your land
so there is no mark for practice quizzes
on campus
but absolutely there is bonus marks
four challenges i'm going to open
challenge
two today or tomorrow and you have a
week to
attend before the meeting
on next friday challenge two will be
open
soon and i will announce that there is
one bonus mark for
challenge two and for the rest of
challenge
we will open i think we will have five
or six challenges
uh during the semester so um it's good
to go through material it doesn't make
sense to attend challenge before doing
preparation
please go through the materials first
do a bit of preparation scheme see what
the
basic concepts what we are going to talk
about
what's the mathematical background of
these techniques
then attend their challenges
any other questions
okay template we don't have any template
for assessment one because we have some
marks for presentation
um my suggestion is to go with
one column template
standard fonts like times
font standard size like 11
you have header footer page numbers
maybe you you may have a cover page
you may have a you know
table of contents it's really up to you
make sure you have references the
content is fully referenced
and having the list of references
without in
in text referencing doesn't make any
sense
and make sure that it's your own writing
you read some cases study you read the
topic you read some
research papers but still to write based
on your own understanding it should be
your
own words so you know the similarity
will be checked by eternity so i don't
want to
have any similarity issue in assessment
in assessments it makes a lot of effort
for us
and it will have a negative impact on
your education
please don't do it if you are enjoying
pressure please
do please let me know and i'm very
happy to support you but cooking and
acing
is not a solution for any subject what
is very bad for the risk management
subject
it means you don't know you don't know
risk management
so it's not a solution if you are in
time pressure
i'm happy to give you extension and
don't do it copying and pasting is not
acceptable
okay have a break
i'll see you in the tutorial
so
[Music]
huh
uh
just
come on
so
uh
yes
so
[Music]
um
god
uh
[Music]
hmm
uh
[Music]
wow
let's go
ah
foreign
okay
so
oh
uh
[Music]
no
huh
uh
you
[Music]
hmm
oh
so
uh
[Music]
so
hmm
huh
uh
[Music]
um
foreign
uh
oh
so
food
yes
hmm
okay
uh
and
[Music]
so
hello
hello okay yeah follow me
what was the problem
i don't know if it sold me like uh
the host is we'll let you know
that we're in there okay did you did you
login with your second yeah i did now
okay okay so sometimes yes
it happens there's a problem with zoom
okay over to you so
please start now yes
[Applause]
[Music]
i think the first activity is pha is
that right
yeah basic letters okay
okay um you are going to do uh pha
for the case study please um
maybe we can today we can
work through breakout rooms uh
we can send you to a number of rooms
in your room please communicate
collaborate with with each other
for each activity we give you some
minutes to discuss
then you get back to the general meeting
and explain your solutions
is that okay yeah
[Music]
okay please if you can um
put the link to the tutorial questions
in the chat box before we open the greek
uploads
from the canvas if you can put the link
to the
questions on the chat box students can
get access quickly and get get ready for
the
discussions in their breakout room
okay i mean they will read first no no
no you don't need to read them
they will do it by themselves yeah i'm
just simply sending the questions
through chat website
yes yes
can yourself please stop sharing
[Music]
so
but you you put the link to the case
study
can you please put the link for the
tutorial questions in the chat box too
and can they download this what are you
saying no no no they cannot download it
put the link from canvas in the chat
[Music]
okay thank you in the breakout rooms
one person could be responsible to
record the discussion we are going to
create some rules for each of these
methods
so communicate to each other uh i think
for pha
10 minutes is you know so
we allocate you we have
53 so we opened 10
rooms and we assigned
randomly so
and we will let you know about time
about
10 minutes for them
first activity let me open the rooms
[Music]
but if you went to the very cartoon you
can just
you know leave the room or stay and just
fascinate the first discussion in the
room
then you can just leave the room and
come back to general okay
hmm
hi guys can can one of you share the
screen
anyone here hi guys hello
oh
okay
hello guys
uh
hmm
[Music]
um
so
[Music]
okay
huh
hmm
okay
[Music]
huh
uh
so
oh
uh
foreign
[Music]
huh
hmm
okay
all right
huh
[Music]
okay
so
what
okay
uh
well i'll show you
up
uh
um
oh
[Music]
with
so
[Music]
huh
so
brother
huh
so
um
huh
[Music]
ugh
um
so
[Music]
okay
uh doctor we can't hear you yes welcome
back
to the general meeting okay uh is there
any volunteer
to talk about the solution in the
breakout room
abdullah do you want to do that at the
laws first
okay so uh we have uh analyzed
the diagram and based on the diagram we
know there is a problem with mixing
two materials and because of that as a
result we can
see there is uh overflow of the liquid
on the
on the on the side on the on the
tank side on the on the field side so
uh we advise that the solution for this
one have to be
we have to make sure that since they are
using the
infrared sensor to make sure that the
mixing or the the level of the
liquid reach the maximum and
maybe make sure there is no overflow
so we we think that if we can use
another type of sensor that have sensor
will
make sure that we get more than
more accurate trading at the same time
and uh
we might advise to add maybe a digital
system to make sure that we get a
continuous uh data
about everything in the in the place uh
so we analyzed uh we have uh
uh discuss how to build uh a different
type bhp and those kind of
tables by
analyzing the hazard what uh what's uh
how many deaths we have seen on the on
the field
and a solution for that and yeah that's
it
very good very good so um abdullah from
his room
presented one row for pha
mixing too much
leading to overflow of material to the
environment
and they are recommended one one
sensor to be installed in the tank to
monitor the level of material in the
tank to avoid any overflow
of the metal very good for our model
rooms is there any
solution that you would like to share
with others
[Music]
do you want to say something
uh yeah so basically one of the other
issues
was that uh the few managed to escape
from the building and building was all
safe and secure
for uh but the only problem was they
never
um they never did the safety check for
the
building next door the adjacent building
obviously there's no reason for that but
they have so there was no prevention um
in making sure that if the fume runs
away or gets away from this
and the only reason why the explosion
happened was because the
who managed to get to the other building
and he wasn't safe
there wasn't enough safety needed to
fill in and he's not for electrical
whatever it was
it basically exploded so there should
have been an alarm
activating um
an evacuation procedure
uh in place and i think the council was
rick
because they approved the whole thing
without doing
proper safety check but i read through
the whole thing before and i realized
the council approved it for that
um without implementing a lot of um
iso standards and um
that's how the whole um that's how the
whole accident happened so
there should have been a better alarm
system
explosion would not happen if there was
an alarm system and maybe a fire
um yeah um that fire monitoring system
as well so
very good very good so and from another
perspective the safety
aspect the people couldn't escape from
the
in the case of study from the
environment
due to lack of all-arm so any
all-armed system in the in the
production area that can help
people to understand in advance about
the situation
could reduce the risk in terms of
civility
having less casualty and injuries very
good
what you do yep
okay any any other volunteers
can i add a point very good yes go ahead
uh yeah as he said the alarm system was
one of the
main thing and later with my experience
i feel
whenever the job is done prior and after
he should maintain he should check
whether the temperature and pressures
are maintained and normal
and monthly calibrations or maintenance
should be done for each equipment in the
plant
so that it should help others also
very good very good very good thanks
yeah
very good so um i see
you know now um better risk management
and implementing of the technique
so righty do you want to um just show
a couple of you know of suggested
solutions definitely
they are not complement they are just
suggested solutions to
um start um
getting your mind working and
by the way if you had good you had a
good discussion in the big countries
i i saw in the brick house some students
are silent
the idea is just to get you working
and talking to each other and starting
to start collaborating
and it's very good for assessment too as
well you can find teammates in the greek
household
but i don't want to force you it's
really up to you
uh highly recommended to uh when you go
to the breakup room and start working
together
okay over to you right here
[Music]
two hundred gallon and uh you need to
manufacture the product
called this protocol and that's
generally used to kill
the concrete surfaces to prevent the
bonding with a wet concrete
so the operator who is uh going to
uh actually he failed to maintain
actually
the accurate situation ernest so
uh one killed and two injured so we have
to basically
uh produce or develop a pha
analysis so basically what is that
process saginaw analysis
is basically the search for the seed of
organized and systematic
assessment of the potential hazard and
you need to make different points for
different uh
assessments using different uh
not different maybe the main component
of the whole system
also the process
start with the boundary uh
what do you need to state actually first
and the boundary
comes with the three main components
that you can see
and so yeah you can
you can reduce the hazard
using different uh techniques but the
boiler system
in this condition need to be removed
because that's not under the
um i mean we are we are taking uh all
the components
in the system but we are assuming that
this is under the normal operating
conditions so
along with the ac power and the raw
materials quality
so all are in normal operating
conditions other than this
regarding the heating and the mixing
and the tanks weakening these are the
major uh components
so you can see the worksheet basically
we have 204
uh
[Music]
major
so this is not actually the perfect
assessment but we have just pointed out
uh some simple uh ideas or tricks
to show you so you have already done a
lot of discussion regarding this but
that also shows us that a region so
uh here you can see the pha worksheet
okay for the reference one we have the
hazard
called heating too much okay
so if heat will be too much
so the event will be overflow vapor
that's actually
accident of the event okay and what
would be the probable
causes so basically it could be this uh
the coil failure
uh so that getting coco
becomes yellow and should be the
sensor failure sensor will not detect
how much heating is
is needed or the pneumatic control limit
failure
or it could be the wire failure that
could be both
auto automatic one failure or the manual
on the normal uh failure thermometer
failure that's
that's actually the manual one that's
basically due to the human error
okay and what are the consequences
generally the fire
injuries that already shown in the
custody
and property damage
yeah these are the major consequences
these consequences will be coming for
all the cases
mostly and yeah
so what are the majors the direct
immediately to the consumer for this
case
i mean for the heating too much so
the majors could be the inspection
program need to be
done properly before starting the system
and then temperature display screen
need to be added or need to check when
we are processing the
heating section in this system test
and then when we are going for the
heating processing then we should also
implement the sensor so that range
sensor can detect and
inform us that what is going on inside
and then the operator workload
consideration
the operator who is working on this uh
his mental health his
accuracy of work we also consider before
[Music]
the whole pha analysis and you can see
the
reference number too that's also not
hitting enough
so that's also another hazard if hitting
enough
getting too much is uh one has been not
hitting enough reasons
so what would accidentally events in
this case is inappropriate mixture
because we are not getting proper heat
and we have
the natures thermometers
inside the tank and we are getting the
raw metals as well as our product
so we are not needing proper leak-shaped
product
as our manufacturer
so what could be the possible causes so
generally star
uh it could be the string called block
case that
is not giving us proper heat or
it could be the sensor failure so the
same things that's
explained in the in the previous case
uh when they're using the heating too
much photography forever
and here that case it was
the coil failure in this case this is
actually the coil block is
but the sensor failure is saying about
the cases pneumatics
unit failure is also about the cases and
auto oil failure would be possible in
this case
so what could be the consequences
basically the consequences will be the
loss of raw materials
i mean we will not get the proper
product so we get a low grade product
and when we have produced this this kind
of
products we are with i mean losing our
reputation
regarding the company of the system uh
yeah so what would be the major major
[Music]
is enough or it's going down or
something like that
okay i think uh um it's you know they
got the idea
so but it's best to it's best to
spend the rest of time uh for hazum and
fmea too
so we are going to try hazu
and so you know about the operation now
we have mixing we have heating we have
ventilated
and the parameters we have temperature
over there follow in the system
so i open the breakout rooms and another
10 minutes
for doing hazardous study you have
the worksheets are available on canvas
look at the columns and just start
working together talking to each other
and share your idea and after 10 minutes
we will see you in the general meeting
to share your ideas
with the rest of the class let me open
the
before moving to the breakout room yeah
sure
so um just make sure so our job is to
analyze exactly
uh not from our side we have to analyze
using a certain data
or certain standard that
we can underline so
if we have a problem there is no way to
to suggest a personally
we have to go to that to the data and
based on the data
we have to know exactly what to follow
if we have a heating we will go to that
part and
okay we get the details okay
you mean is there any checklist for
doing that yeah
from where we get it yes there is no
checklist to
to suit every situation absolutely there
is some checklist for some well-known
systems
but there is no checklist for every
system
um that's the reason we use
multi-disciplinary
team for doing risk assessment
yeah you need to share your ideas from
different perspectives different
background
to make sure that you do a good risk
assessment
absolutely there are still checklists
and some
in some standards for some specific
systems there are some
but there is no prescription for all
systems
i say i see yeah okay i open rooms
uh 10 minutes for doing hazard
so
uh
you
so
uh
this
thank you
good
yes
shhh
except
uh
tripod
hmm
[Music]
uh
um
oh
uh
[Music]
right
let me volunteer to share the solution
well we just start with the keywords of
course
with no or not more or less part of and
with more probably more temperature
caused it
valve failure on the equipment that was
the cause the vapor overflow
um recommending obviously
to maybe some sort of a cooling
system in case like this or better
sensor better quality sensor
that's one of them very good very good
any other solutions
okay roti over to you
[Music]
you study what you need to do you need
to systematically
structure the examination of your
complex plan what you are going to do
and simply represent
the the risk that is persistent to every
personal auditor or the equipment
so we have different uh functions and
different operational parameters and the
guide word
[Music]
first so the boundary already said for
the previous previous one
we can consider the same boundary for
this case as well so
basically we need to consider all the
three main concepts
the big thing heating and ventilation
but the the boiler system that
is we could consider as a
normal operating conditions
along with the ac power and the raw
materials are also in the normal
conditions
so the functions so these are not
i mean the detail but for the detail
assessment you will find
a lot of things so we have just pointed
out something
regarding the function the heating and
mixing
[Music]
yeah for the manufacturing case we could
have
the cardboard more and other than so
yeah if you are doing
something more than 30 other than
manufacturing that would be
the human error and we will be getting
as a consequence
some inappropriate mixture and
what could be the recommendation so the
recommendation will be the labeling of
raw materials and who can't who could do
that
but the expert here we just pointed out
a main as
uh motion natasha so maybe he is the
expert regarding
the function of manufacturing he could
study pretty well
so when should we solve this as soon as
possible because this is important
then suppose in case of heating we could
change the coil or something like that
but in case of manufacturing
something wrong with the manufacturing
whole system so it will be a big problem
so similarly you could do if
manufacturing
the guidewater will be more i mean more
and the loading will be the operation of
parameters
so that would be another human error and
i will be getting the inappropriate
mixture as well
and
[Music]
that we can consider this much metal is
actually needed for the manufacturing
process is gonna have to work
over the raw materials
and that would be controlled by someone
expert in this field
but if we solve as soon as possible by
the end of the month
or as soon as possible so similarly we
could go for the heating processes
uh and the diode will be more
so more heating will be
weird at the high temperature okay
and that is can be
and the consequence and the cause could
be the the sensor failure
and we cannot understand what is going
inside that could be the human error
because we have two process
one is the automatic one which is due to
the essential network
and the human error is the
[Music]
operability i mean the operator who is
going to do this
and that's that could be due to the
overflow of the vapor with the
postulated explosion that that's the
consequences
and we need to install the redundant
sensor
and the installing of the display so
that we can see what's going on
inside and the sensor could detect if
the heating
if the temperature is going i mean
rising
so for them also we need someone named
the expert
and it should be solved within two
months i mean
it's just recommendation it's not
actually uh
it's a time period that we have just
pointed out within two months if we
solve
so it could get a manufacturer done
first one time and with proper uh
proper butt values similarly we can go
for the photographing
processes okay i think they can go
through
the mixing function by themselves so
just to manage the time
uh another 10 minutes for fmea
then we will discuss and finish the
tutorial for today
i open the rooms
so
um
what
okay
let's go
uh
huh
so
[Music]
hello can anyone
please consider to do something
okay so uh let's start first so uh
do you want to start the film cap or the
other one
think alright there you go the last one
okay very good let me just make sure
that i open the right
page yeah so we have discussed uh we
have basically
understand that we have uh uh to
identify the problem
in order to find a solution and to
analyze what kind of
uh uh criticality of this problem
so we realized that we have overheating
and the same time we have overflow of
the
liquid and
as a result of that we are getting
damage which is two people did in
the same area the occurrence
we have went to this kind this table
or this list and we have decided this is
a law
considered as a law of failure
consequences and
severity we also choose to be between
four and six are actually considered as
a high
which is between seven and eight and uh
the detection also we there's another
table we have
followed that and we have decided this
is a moderate and as a result of that we
have to get a number as a criticality of
the problem
so we have uh find out that uh at the
range between if we
went back to the lecture and find out if
the number between zero and 125
this uh your number have
based on your number you can decide
exactly how much criticality is the
problem
is it more critical or is it normal or
is it fine
uh so uh yeah and that's it this is what
we did
actually great you're doing a proper
analysis
anyone else
any other volunteer in this case
[Music]
here go on
i put the severity as 10 because um
sorry as eight because there's a death
involved so there was a pathology the
actual
um accident and so i thought maybe maybe
four to six hour but i think seven
probably
uh seven or eight yeah seven probably
because eight is on the
industrial scale um so i thought yeah
also
severity was about seven
all right all right how about the
criticality
[Music]
sorry
involved in a lot of injuries seven
would have been for the
uh severity and um
i was working the other one out but yeah
i'm on my own at the moment
anyone else
you can go and go through the a couple
of rows and
finish the story
so before going to the detail on
actually you need to follow the rpt or
the details components within it
as we already discussed before in
previous tutorials that
the tank will be in separate uh
system there's a different component and
then we have
a the heating mixing and
ventilation part so all these three
components need to be considered
as well in this case because these are
the
studies we are continuously doing
starting from the case one till
case three having the same
boundary and the outside of the boundary
is
is actually our boiler system and the ac
power along the raw materials
so in this case uh you know on this
the components and there are symbols
so basically we are using the uh
fm eca analysis which is failure modes
the effects and criticality analysis
we are not going for the
[Music]
analysis only which is schedule most
effects analysis
so for this analysis we need to proceed
from the legal one
or in the combination of all the details
[Music]
starting from the abstraction or the
system function
or it could be the the subsystems or the
digital components
only to be considered so the potential
effects of all these
failures uh need to be would be properly
postulated and
uh the causes of all these
systems need to be properly identified
and need to stop it in the
corrective majors and didn't need to
uh before before the corrective measures
we need to find out what are the
criticality and
after the correct images we need to
again find out what are the
criticality for the whole components
values
okay okay let's come to the system
[Music]
so here we have different components are
they pointed out everything need to be
considered
uh starting from the tank uh till the
automatic run but
here we just find out all the main
components uh
as dr mohsen said we should have a
checklist to do all these things
so uh we have tank
uh and if tank is in failure failure
modes
then what could be the hard the harder
could be basically the
capable materials yeah
then what would the damage the injuries
and property damage
that that we already discussed so
you have to estimate the occurrence the
severity detection and the criticality
so for the occurrence severity and
detection
we have different scales the different
scales means what we see
here so for the occurrence rating
criteria we have the scale
so we have the rating the failure uh
consequence description and the failure
rate
and for the security actually we have
the scale
and for the detection we have also
assisted
so we need actually experts to to point
it out what are the values
we should put in the in case of currency
the time field
in case of for organs or in case of
steam coil fails so here we just pointed
out based on the expert's opinion
uh the occurrence the security
detection uh if time fails the
occurrence
we could work
[Music]
i mean the failure is unlikely it's not
always confused sometimes
uh as you can see the rating
the failure rate which is one in one
million
okay so the chance is very less here so
the occurrence chances will be very less
so that i put
one but whatever the severity the
civility will be extremely high
if the tank failed because the flammable
liquid will village
so that's how you put coits stain
okay so here you can see the effects of
on safety or involving
the non-comprehensive government
regulations
okay so it's very hard for the
singularity okay and coming to the
detection part there is very
i mean mostly if uh with damp failures
we can understand
yeah it's the tank failure but something
is coming out from the
hands so it is easy to detect
[Music]
okay
okay but after the current teenager so
we are using the
spring total system to do to solve this
issue so we can understand
what is going on easily and then the
security will
come down
[Music]
so far
no questions actually uh one question so
uh
for one minute
a shortcut normally if
[Music]
so in here if you see the jd lp
no no no um yeah this is the name of you
know person who is responsible for
doing this and the time uh we make a
deadline for
those kind of modifications and mn is
only you know just acronym
um this is very simple victim
very good any other questions
[Music]
um
the case is not related to you know
indigenous communities in any way
say there is no link we have not
identified anything
but you need to explore at least okay um
they are a part of the stakeholders or
not
and it's not necessary yeah what do you
say
you make a comment if there is anything
or
if there is not anything
any other questions
no okay thanks for your help thanks
everybody
for participation i think the early sfs
will
open on monday please let us your
comments
how we can improve how we can actually
optimize the sessions please let us know
we all know this actually in online
teaching and learning so your comments
are very appreciated challenge 2 is open
until next thursday
please go through the materials before
attempting
the challenge if you don't have any
questions we will see you
next week